README.md, before:

# FeatureSharing
Repository of materials to reproduce the results in the article "Visual pathways from the perspective of cost functions and multi-task deep neural networks".
Link to paper on bioRxiv: [http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/06/06/146472](http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/06/06/146472)

## Visualizations
Below are the representation-to-task-contributions over training time. 

Related Tasks

| conv1 | conv2 | conv3 | conv4 | conv5 |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| ![conv1](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv1.gif) | ![conv2](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv2.gif) | ![conv3](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv3.gif) | ![conv4](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv4.gif) | ![conv5](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv5.gif) |


Unrelated Tasks

| conv1 | conv2 | conv3 | conv4 | conv5 |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| ![conv1](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv1.gif) | ![conv2](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv2.gif) | ![conv3](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv3.gif) | ![conv4](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv4.gif) | ![conv5](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv5.gif) |


## Prerequisites
The following python packages are required to use this package:
- numpy (>= 1.11.1)
- matplotlib
- tqdm (for progress bars)
- [pytorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch#installation)
- [nnadapter](https://github.com/mlosch/nnadapter#installation) (No Caffe or torch7 installation required)

## Reproducing results
To reproduce the visualizations in section 3 of the article, follow these steps:
- Clone or download this project<BR>
`git clone https://github.com/mlosch/FeatureSharing.git && cd FeatureSharing`
- Download pretrained models and images via<BR>
`bash scripts/download_pretrained_models.sh`
- Run marginalization of parameters. Depending on your system this may take days. You can alter the number of samples in the script to a small value to speed up the process in exchange for accuracy.<BR>
`bash scripts/generate_conditionals.sh`
- Calculate the weighted evidence from the generated data<BR>
`bash scripts/analysis_featurecontribution.sh`
- Render visualizations. They are saved in `data/processed/`<BR>
`bash scripts/visualize_featurecontribution.sh`

## Generating data and training models
The full training data (and pretrained models) can be downloaded here:
- [Full training dataset](https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/multitaskcnns/mtldataset_full.tar.gz)
- [Pretrained models](https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/multitaskcnns/models.tar.bz2)

We used the [fb.resnet.torch](https://github.com/facebook/fb.resnet.torch) package in conjunction with [Torch7](http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html) to train our models.

The images have been overlayed with labels via the script `apply_random_label.py` in the `scripts` directory.
Given for example the imagenet dataset this script does the job with the following parameters:<BR>
`python scripts/apply_random_label.py -d path/to/imagenet -l data/labels/label_list.txt -o path/to/outputfolder`

Commit message:

Add further details on purpose of repository

README.md, after:

# FeatureSharing
Repository of materials to reproduce the results in the article "Visual pathways from the perspective of cost functions and multi-task deep neural networks".
Link to paper on bioRxiv: [http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/06/06/146472](http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/06/06/146472)

## Purpose
The purpose of this repository is two-fold.
1. Reproduce the results and visualizations of the paper
2. Use the source code as base or inspiration to use in your own analysis of deep neural networks.
The core of the proposed method is the marginalization of parameters to estimate the contribution of feature representations to a class or task (see [this function](https://github.com/mlosch/FeatureSharing/blob/master/featuresharing/surgery.py#L41)). While the implementation holds some comments I advise to have a look at the appendix of the paper which describes the method in detail.

### Measuring contributions in your own DNN
While the general implementation should be able to handle all networks trained in Caffe, Torch7 and PyTorch, the specific setup is limited to Torch7 models, the limiting variable being the meta data describing the mapping between output units and classes. The meta data is exclusively used in [this line](https://github.com/mlosch/FeatureSharing/blob/master/featuresharing/preprocessing.py#L66).

## Prerequisites
The following python packages are required to use this package:
- numpy (>= 1.11.1)
- matplotlib
- tqdm (for progress bars)
- [pytorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch#installation)
- [nnadapter](https://github.com/mlosch/nnadapter#installation) (No Caffe or torch7 installation required)

## Visualizations
Below are the representation-to-task-contributions over training time. See the article in section 3 for more details.

Related Tasks

| conv1 | conv2 | conv3 | conv4 | conv5 |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| ![conv1](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv1.gif) | ![conv2](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv2.gif) | ![conv3](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv3.gif) | ![conv4](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv4.gif) | ![conv5](img/gifs/Subord+Basic/conv5.gif) |


Unrelated Tasks

| conv1 | conv2 | conv3 | conv4 | conv5 |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| ![conv1](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv1.gif) | ![conv2](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv2.gif) | ![conv3](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv3.gif) | ![conv4](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv4.gif) | ![conv5](img/gifs/Object+Text/conv5.gif) |


## Reproducing results
To reproduce the visualizations in section 3 of the article, follow these steps:
- Clone or download this project<BR>
`git clone https://github.com/mlosch/FeatureSharing.git && cd FeatureSharing`
- Download pretrained models and images via<BR>
`bash scripts/download_pretrained_models.sh`
- Run marginalization of parameters. Depending on your system this may take days. You can alter the number of samples in the script to a small value to speed up the process in exchange for accuracy.<BR>
`bash scripts/generate_conditionals.sh`
- Calculate the weighted evidence from the generated data<BR>
`bash scripts/analysis_featurecontribution.sh`
- Render visualizations. They are saved in `data/processed/`<BR>
`bash scripts/visualize_featurecontribution.sh`

## Generating data and training models
The full training data (and pretrained models) can be downloaded here:
- [Full training dataset](https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/multitaskcnns/mtldataset_full.tar.gz)
- [Pretrained models](https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/multitaskcnns/models.tar.bz2)

We used the [fb.resnet.torch](https://github.com/facebook/fb.resnet.torch) package in conjunction with [Torch7](http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html) to train our models.

The images have been overlayed with labels via the script `apply_random_label.py` in the `scripts` directory.
Given for example the imagenet dataset this script does the job with the following parameters:<BR>
`python scripts/apply_random_label.py -d path/to/imagenet -l data/labels/label_list.txt -o path/to/outputfolder`
